Add guidance on Patch semantics to the Resource Guidelines (#38857)
gravitational/teleport: rfd/0153-resource-guidelines.md

}
```

#### Patch

> For handling partial updates of a resource, the patch operation exists. The
> patch operation accepts the name of the resource and an update function. It 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The patch operation is intended for handling partial updates of a resource. The
patch operation accepts the name of the resource and an update function. It 
```

fetches the resource, calls the update function with the fetched resource and
then calls `ConditionalUpdate` with the updated resource. It then returns the
updated resource with the revision generated by the backend set.

The revision of the fetched resource is used for the `ConditionalUpdate`. The
Patch method should reject mutations that change the revision of the fetched

> resource. If a consumer wishes to provide the revision, they should instead

Reviewer 2: We could let callers specify the base revision for the update, ie what the baseline resource was for that update, and if that changed refuse the update as well. In other words, allow for optimistic concurrency.

Reviewer: See this thread https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/38857#discussion_r1509256050

Reviewer 2: Thanks, let's move the conversation there.

> against a specific revision.

Reviewer: If the caller has a revision they probably have the whole resource, couldn't the caller just use `ConditionalUpdate`? What are the benefits of a conditional field mask-enabled update operation?

Author: This is a good point. Perhaps it's just easier to prohibit modifying the revision in Patch and suggest people use Update in those cases. It would definitely simplify the semantics of Patch.

Author: Ok great - agreed. I'll modify my RemoteCluster PR to reflect this.

Author: 63de165c49

Reviewer 2: Counterpoint: if the Get is part of a previous RPC, then using the client's view makes sense. Think `tctl edit` for example.

Author: I think given the case of `tctl edit`, it'd make more sense for `Update` to be used instead of `Patch` - the client already has a full view of the resource. `Patch` is more targetted towards something like `tctl update` which does not necessarily need a view of the full resource.

Reviewer 2: `tctl edit` can still race against someone else's edit, potentially overwriting changes.

Reviewer: `tctl edit` is already using conditional update semantics for the resource types for which it's possible to do so.

This method is not directly exposed by the gRPC API but is used to implement
the Update RPC when a field mask has been provided. In this case, the update

> function should apply the field mask.

Reviewer: Should we really need to prescribe the behavior of an internal-use method?

This replaces methods such as `UpdateAndSwap`.

```go
func (s *FooService) PatchFoo(
	ctx context.Context,
	name string,
	updateFn func(foo *foov1.Foo) (foo *foov1.Foo, error),

> ) (foo *foov1.Foo, error) {

Reviewer: Could this be a method in the generic service implementation?

Author: I don't see why not.

Author: Is there somewhere I need to indicate this will be included in the generic service?

Author: Sure - I can raise a PR to include it there :) I'll raise that when I undraft this.

	// Retry multiple times to account for a potential conflict.
	const iterationLimit = 3
	for i := 0; i < iterationLimit; i++ {
		stored, err := s.GetFoo(ctx, name)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, trace.Wrap(err)
		}

		// Clone the resource to avoid mutating the original.
		updated, err := updateFn(proto.Clone(stored).(*foov1.Foo))
		if err != nil {
			return nil, trace.Wrap(err)

> 		}

Reviewer 2: Skip the update if nothing changed?

```suggestion
		}
		if proto.Equal(stored, updated) {
			return stored, nil
		}
```
